The Liberator 

Devoted to the Cause of Oood Governmentand the Advancement of the Afro-American. 

LOS ANGELES, CAL., JANUARY 1904. So. 9 



Motel Arcadia, Santa Monica, California 


How About an Overcoat 

We want you to come in and see the Overcoat we have ready for you—a splendid, serviceable, stylish 
Overcoat that will wear for seasons, the right shape, right style, right quality, and not one penny higher 
in price than you'd pay for an ordinary, every-dav, common overcoat. 

CHAS. W. ENNIS, 233 S. Spring St. 































2 


THE LIBERATOR. 



MRS. HARRIET OWENS, A SUC¬ 
CESSFUL REAL ESTATE 
DEALER. 

In presenting to our readers half-tones 
of a few representative colored business 
men and women of this city who are 
solving the race problem, we present 
Mrs. Owens first. She is in manv re- 
soects a remarkable woman. Although 
but 16 years old at the close of the war, 
she was the mother of one child, and in 
spite of the struggle incident to raising 
a family of children, she learned to read 
and write. Being a Christian and pub¬ 
lic-spirited woman, her little education 
made her a valuable member of the 
church and community. She is a mem¬ 
ber of the Second Baptist Church of this 
city and is one of its original 25 mem¬ 
bers, which number has grown to 700. 

Impressed with the idea that the own¬ 
ership of homes is an important factor 
in the elevation of a people and a strong 
inclination to do missionary work, she 
made a list of property in her neighbor¬ 
hood advertised for sale and secured the 
privilege of the owners to sell the same. 
She easily induced colored families to 
buy homes and soon found herself do¬ 
ing a prosperous real estate business. 
Persons with property to sell or houses 
to rent listed them with her, and in a 
short time she sold homes to 26 families 
and secured tenants for a large number 
of landlords. While her income from 
sales and rentals is considerable, Mrs. 
Owens says her greatest income is the 


pleasure she derives from helping to 
better the condition of her race. The 
worth and influence of such a woman 
on the fortunes of a race that’s down is 
inestimable. She is building homes not 
only for time, but for eternity, and is 
rendering to her race a greater service 
than she imagines. If a woman who 
never spent a day in school can accom¬ 
plish in her humble sphere such results 
for the upbuilding of the race, what 
must be the responsibility that rests up¬ 
on the shoulders of our educated women 
whose time is wasted in attending so- 
called “swell entertainments.” How 
many colored families have you club 
women assisted in getting homes? 

Mrs. Owens, an ex-slave and a great¬ 
grandmother, is setting an example for 
usefulness that our educated club wo¬ 
men would do well to emulate. Her 
two-story cottage at 2916 New Jersey 
street, is one of the most attractive in 
that locality. 



J. B. LOVING, 128 N. MAIN. 

Mr. Loving, the pioneer colored real 
estate man, has just completed a pros- 
oerous year. In the real estate business 
he has rendered valuable service to the 
colored people by enabling them to get 
valuable property, a thing that was be¬ 
coming more and more difficult, as mos\ 
of the white real estate dealers kept their 
undesirable properties for colored pat 
rons, or refused to sell them at all. Now 
they not only sell to colored people, but 
advertise in colored papers; so he is a 
benefactor to his race in more ways than 
one. Fie has other business interests, 
and furnishes employment for a num¬ 
ber of men. 



MR. E. G. HILL, PROPRIETOR OF 
TFIE H. H. RUBBISH CO. 

It is the men that do things that add 
to the worth of a community or race. 
Mr. Hill belongs to this class. Like the 
rest of our men who are doing some¬ 
thing, he commenced in his ‘‘shirt 
sleeves” as a janitor. Now he employs 
\ to 6 men and 6 teams, and owns be¬ 
sides several valuable lots in this city, 
and 80 acres of fine farming land on 
which are three splendid cottages. This 
property will soon be reached by one of 
the interurban electric lines which will 
add immensely to its value. If the gov¬ 
ernment at the close of the war had 
given each negro “40 acres of land and 
a mule,” they would own less today 
than they had then, for even now the 
negro has not the experience necessary 
to properly handle an inheritance. That 
the average black man was leT a for¬ 
tune on condition that he earn it dollar 
by dollar, was in itself a goody heritage, 

Mr. Hill is a member of the board of 
trustees of the Wesley Chapel M. E. 
Chunrch, his business experience mak¬ 
ing him a valued member. 


Messrs. Williamson Bros. desire, 
through the columns of The Liberator, 
to thank their colored friends for the 
liberal patronage given them during the 
year just closed. They take this means 
to inform them that they are prepared 
to give patrons better bargains in musi¬ 
cal instruments than ever before. Their 
stock comprises everything in musical 
instruments and sewing machines. 327 
South Spring. 






















3 


THE LIBERATOR. 




Spring street hotels while en route to His location, between the Second Baptist 
Hotel Jones for dinner, among whom and new Wesley Chapel M. E. Church, is 
are many Southerners. The whole a splendid one and his wholesome meals 
thing is a splendid object lesson and is and polite service will be appreciated by 
another proof that white people’s the church-going people, 
prejudice against the negro disappears Mr. Morris deserves the respect and 
in proposition as the neero gets posses- encouragement of our people as every 
sion of the things the white people man does who creates a job instead of 
want. White people who raise a great looking for one. The young man who is 
howl about eating in the same dining ambitious to employ himself has in his 


Mr. A. J. Jones, proprietor of Hotel 
Jones. 

In the industrial number of The Lib¬ 
erator, published a year ago, we presented 
two cuts of Hotel Jones, one of the 
building and one of its interior. It is 
gratifying in aeed to present to our read¬ 
ers through the medium of the above cut, 
the man who erected the first brick busi¬ 
ness block in this city to be used by col¬ 
ored business men. Another feature of the 
matter is, with the exception of the super¬ 
vising architect, all of the work was done 
by colored mechanics and it stands as a 
monument to their handiwork. When 
Mr. Jones erected his block a row of 
shacks lined that part of San Pedro 
street. The White property owners fol¬ 
lowed his lead, raised the unsightingly 
huts, replacing them with sdendid 
blocks whose white press brick fronts 
presents an imposing appearance. From 
this it can be seen that his presence has 
added immensely to the value of prop¬ 
erty in his locality. 

On Spring street two blocks away 
even Booker Washington would find it 
difficult to get entertainments at the ho¬ 
tels, except in a condescending way, so 
strong is the color line drawn by the 
Southern men who lease and run them. 
But call at Hotel Jones at the noon hour 
and you will find it crowded with white 
and colored ladies and gentlemen, all 
dining in the same room and at the 
same tables as though color prejudice 
was an unknown species of heathenism. 
White men and women pass by the 


room with negroes in a white man’s 
hotel will often walk blocks to eat with 
him, if he owns the hotel and gives a 
good meal. It is the good, clean, 
wholesome meal that the white man is 
looking for, that’s why he goes to Ho¬ 
tel Jones. As a good useful citizen 
he is a credit to his community, a man 
of whom his race is justly proud. He 
is not onlv helping the race by demon¬ 
strating its ability to create things, but 
the success that enables him to furnish 
employment to its members. Mr. 
Jones tolerates no color line; he there¬ 
fore employs both white and colored 
waiters. How a look into Jones’ din¬ 
ing room at the dinner hour would j~r 
Vardanian! 


MR. V. W. MORRIS, 

Proprietor of the H. M. & H. restaurant, 
corner of 8th and Wall streets, is an en¬ 
terprising young business man, who is 
not “waiting for something to turn un.” 
His restaurant is one of the best con¬ 
ducted in the city and we are pleased to 
state that it is well patronized. Mr. Mor¬ 
ris is intelligent, possessing the qualifi¬ 
cations that lead to success in his line. 


make-up the elements necessary to a suc¬ 
cessful career. It is the men who de¬ 
pend upon themselves, the men who are 
willing to “labor and to wait” and who 
trusts no short cuts to fortune, that leave 
“foot prints on the sands of time.” 


DR. M. E. SYKES. 

In presenting Dr. Sykes as a repre¬ 
sentative of the medical profession, we 
say without any disparagement of the 
merits of other colored phvsicians, all 
of whom are capable men; that he is 
the pioneer and in the matter of success 
stands at the head of his profession. 
When quite a young man he taught 
school and preached. He came West 
and held the pastorate of the Second 
Baptist church of San Diego. Think¬ 
ing perhaps that he could render hu¬ 
manity greater service as a physician, 
lie returned to the East and entered 
the Meharry Medical College and 
graduated, commencing the practice of 
his profession in this city in 1893. He 
immediately built up a lucrative prac¬ 
tice, which has steadily grown and 
which is proof of the people’s confi¬ 
dence in his medical ability. His real 
estate holdings in the city are valuable. 
He owns besides other property 12 
modern cottages worth at least $24,000 
and yield a handsome income. 











4 


THE LIBERATOR. 


THE LIBERATOR. 

J. L. EDMUNDS, Editor and Busi¬ 
ness Manager. 

Subscription Rates, $1.00 a year; 10 
cents per jnonth. 

Agents wanted in every city, town 
and village. Address THE LIBERA¬ 
TOR PUBLISHING CO., Los Angeles, 
Cal. 

AGENTS. 

We allow our agents to keep zu 
per cent of all money received from 
new subscriptions, but nothing on 
renewals. They earn large sala¬ 
ries. 

REMITTANCES. 

Send money by draft, registered 
letter or money order to THE 
LIBERATOR PUBLISHING CO. 
We will not be responsible for loss 
of currency or stamps, unless the 
letter be registered. LIBERATOR 
PUBLISHING CO. 

EXPIRATIONS. 

Each subscriber is formally noti¬ 
fied of the expiration of his sub¬ 
scription, and the paper will be 
continued until written notice is 
given to the contrary. No paper 
will be discontinued until all dues 
are fully settled. 

HOW TO WRITE FOR THE LIBERA¬ 
TOR. 

Write only on one side of your paper. 
Published monthly at Los Angeles. 

Office 218 West Sixth Street. 
Editor’s address, Sawtelle, Cal. 

TEL. PETER 7231. 


SOUTHERN REPRESENTATION 
WILL NOT BE CUT DOWN. 

The above statement was made in a 
recent edition of the New Orleans Times- 
Democrat. Whether it will prove true 
or not remains to be seen. There seems 
to be an almost universal doubt in the 
minds of the negro editors of the coun¬ 
try as* to whether the Republican party 
will make good its promise. In the 
interests of fair play, we trust that some 
thing will be done to destrov the pres¬ 
ent inequality of suffrage, due to nulli¬ 
fication of the national constitutional 
amendments. But if the white voters of 
the North and West are willing for the 
vote of one ignorant, non-progressive, 
lawless white man in the South to have 
a political power equal to that of 14 
intelligent millionaires of the North, the 
negro can stand it. Of course this 
whole thing is wrong, no less to the 
white man than to the negro, and, like 
slavery, of which it is an offspring, if let 
alone will bring lots of trouble for both. 
If constitutional government is to sur¬ 
vive, the great bill of rights of this coun¬ 


try will have to be enforced without 
regard to race, color or section. If an¬ 
archy is to take the place of law, just 
to prove that an ignorant southern white 
law breaker is superior to negroes like 
Booker Washington, the white man has 
more to lose than the negro. All the 
negro asks is the enforcement of the 
law; he needs no special or class legis¬ 
lation to help him in the race. Presi¬ 
dent Roosevelt is pledged by the nlat- 
form upon which he was elected to rem¬ 
edy this evil as the law provides, and 
he is not a man that regards his pledges 
lightly. 

It is simply wonderful how the south¬ 
ern people’s confidence in the President 
has grown since his election. This, too, 
in spite of the fact that he received less 
votes in that section than any other 
presidential candidate since the war, and 
was the victim of more mean, contempt¬ 
ible personal abuse than any candidate 
since the sixties. Why this change of 
heart? He has secured the confirmation 
of Dr. Crum. He says he is not going 
to change his negro policy. The whole 
thing is a bare-faced attempt at seduc¬ 
tion. Will the President allov^himself 
to be seduced? 

A race that came unscathed out of 240 
years of bondage, and made progress 
along every line of improvement, in 
spite of the Ku Klux Klan, class legis¬ 
lation and the mob, will survive the 
present onslaught upon its rights. 


are you richer or poorer? There is 
nothing so lasting as a life of love, and 
nothing so transitory as the wealth and 
glory of this world. When the multi¬ 
millionaire, Cornelius Vanderbilt, was 
dying, he requested those at his bedside 
to sing “Come, Ye Sinners Poor and 
Needy.” Jay Gould would have freely 
given his millions for another year of 
life. In more recent years there were 
other great American statesmen and 
financiers whose words stood against the 
world, who now have less say-so in the 
affairs of men than the humblest pauper. 
And, like yours, their happiness in time 
and eternity will be in proportion as 
they stood, “for all men up, rather than 
some men down.” 


EXIT OLD YEAR. 

The year 1904 has passed into eternity 
and the deeds of men, whether they 
were good or bad, are records in the 
summary of their life works. The busi¬ 
ness man takes stock at this season of 
the year to find his standing in the busi¬ 
ness world, to see whether he is richer 
or poorer than he was the previous year. 
This is necessary if he hopes to suc¬ 
ceed. But if life is to be made worth 
the living, men and women must take 
stock with their conscience, for in a 
few short years, whether rich or poor 
in the world’s goods, each of us will 
have arrived in that country where gold 
and silver cut no figure in the distribu¬ 
tion of rewards. If you lived simply 
to make money, it is hoped that you 
are satisfied with the result, but in the 
things that count for time and eternity- 
sacrifices made to make men better, 
scattering seeds of love and kindness— 


EDITOR GREENE GETS A CLERK¬ 
SHIP. 

Editor T. A. Greene of the Enter¬ 
prise has been appointed second as¬ 
sistant journal clerk of the Assembly at 
Sacramento, the number of assistants 
being seven. He is worthv of the place, 
being possessed of a good stock of 
book learning and a bigger stock of 
common sense. We congratulate him 
on his success, feeling assured that it 
will not affect him as it does too many 
negroes, especially in this state by com¬ 
pletely obliterating their memory of 
the men whose sacrifices made their 
success possible. The only negroes in 
the state holding political positions 
carrying with them official dignity are 
from this section, but the men sweated 
blood to bring it to pass, though forgot¬ 
ten, are still doing duty on the firing 
line. Green hails from the state that 
made Bruce, Lynch and Hill. He is loyal 
and true. Success, old boy. 


Notice.—Many of our readers are 
indebted to this paper for subscrip¬ 
tions and other small amounts. These 
friends will do us a favor to remit at 
once. This will enable us to make the 
improvements that we contemplate mak¬ 
ing. Whatever you owe please remit 
it without further- notice. Thanking 
you for your liberal support in the past, 
we are ambitious with your aid to in¬ 
crease our efforts in the struggle for 
the elevation of the colored citizens. 
If you are not a subscriber, send a dol¬ 
lar to push the good work along. 


















THE LIBERATOR. 


5 



REV. G. R. BRYANT. 


Rev. Bryant, pastor of the Wesley 
Chapel M. E. Church, is one of those 
quiet, earnest, conscientious men whose 
labors tell for the good of every com¬ 
munity that has the good fortune to 
claim him as a citizen. Two years ago 
he resigned his charge at San Antonio, 
Texas* one of the largest and best pay¬ 
ing in that state, to take charge of Wes¬ 
ley Chapel with the understanding that 
the new charge was poor, necessitating 
the reduction of his salary t>v sev¬ 
eral hundred dollars, but that the 
good of the cause demanded the 
sacrifice. He made the sacrifice. He 
came and found the church almost 
in the throes of dissolution, due 
to an unfortunate misunderstanding 
between the members and a for¬ 
mer pastor. By his wonderful per¬ 
sonality Rev. Bryant immediately 
brought order of chaos, peace out of 
confusion and the church entered upon 
a career of usefulness and prosperity 
unprecedented in its history. Many 
members who had left the church re¬ 
turned and these with new accessions 
and visitors soon over-taxed the seat¬ 
ing capacity of the building.* While 
devising ways and means for building 
a larger church without burdening the 
members with a heavy debt, Rev. Bry¬ 
ant and the trustees sold the Sixth 
street site for $24,000 cash and paid 
$12,000 for a lot 80x136 feet corner of 
Eighth and San Julian streets. This 


left the church with $12,000 cash with 
the old building and parsonage and 
three cottages worth about $800. They 
have been offered $15,000 for the new 
site, but will not take less than $20,000 
for it. 

When Rev. Bryant took charge the 
church had a membership all told of 
150* it has now 315. Money raised 
for all purposes during the last confer¬ 
ence year was more than $3,000. But 
the work he has done for the moral up¬ 
building of the community, by gather¬ 
ing the young people and strangers into 
the church the encouragement given 
the people to practice economy and buy 
homes far outweigh all other considera¬ 
tions in estimating his services. 


WESLEY CHAPEL NOTES. 

The year just ended was one of the 
most prosperous in the history of the 
church. The increase in membership 
was unprecedented. In entertaining the 
great M. E. General Conference, Wesley 
Chapel did her full share. Rev. Bryant 
entered the annual conference with a 
clean bill. In the moral upbuilding of 
the community she has been a potent 
force. 

* * * 

THE OLD CHURCH SITE SOLD. 

The sale of the old Sixth street site 
for $24,000 cash is the biggest real es¬ 
tate transfer ever made by a colored 
church in this State. Too much credit 
cannot be given to the pastor and offi¬ 
cers for that splendid transaction which 
resulted in the sale of the old church, 
which has grown too small, for money 
enough to buy a larger lot and build a 
suitable church on a cash basis. The 
purchase of a lot 80x136 feet at the cor¬ 
ner of Eighth and San Julian streets 
was a business stroke. The lot contains 
three nice cottages and cost the church 
$12,000. The church can sell the prop¬ 
erty for $15,000, but it ought not be sold 
for less than $20,000. 

* * * 

THREE BONNY BRIDES CAP¬ 
TURED. 

Recently three fortunate young men 
have led three of our bright, charming, 
young ladies to the altar in the persons 
of Misses Kate E. Bradly, Mattie Scott 
and Stella Henderson. The lucky gen¬ 
tlemen are respectively Mr. W. A. Sto¬ 
vall, Dr. T. J. Nelson and Mr. Fred 
Hudgins. By these unions each of the 


contracting parties has been honored. 

“Botany Bay,” a dramatic play given 
at Elks’ Hall for the benefit of the 
church, was well attended and was one 
of the most interesting entertainments 
of the year. It was creditable to all 
concerned. Mr. F. J. Bradly, one of 
the brightest young men of the church, 
was the leading character. 

The musical concert given for the 
benefit of the choir leader, Prof. Woods, 
was a success and a fitting tribute to a 
worthy, painstaking teacher. 


MR. C. W. BROOKS, 

The enterprising carpenter who came 
here recently from Natchez, Mississippi, 
is erecting two cottages corner of 29th 
and Trinity streets. These cottages 
will be occupied as soon as completed. 

* * * 

Elsewhere in these columns we pre¬ 
sent to our readers half-tones of a few 
colored business and professional men 
and women of this city. That we 
could not present them all is a disap¬ 
pointment. We present them not to 
show them off, but rather to emphasize 
what they stand for, what they repre¬ 
sent. Their importance to a race can¬ 
not be estimated. Their success is 
the race's success. A race without 
them cannot compete with a race that 
has them. A race that is not proud 
of its worthy members has no future. 
A negro that is ashamed; of his race, 
and is trying to get away from it is too 
contemptible to think of. Such a negro 
must be the illigitimate progeny of the 
lowest element of both races. We are 
proud of the negro race and its achieve¬ 
ments, proud of its religious ferver and 
virtuous tendencies, proud to be a mem¬ 
ber of the race, that in spite of its un- 
paralelled trials and tribulations pro¬ 
duced Frederick Douglass and Booker 
T. Washington. 

* * * 

A PIANO CHEAP. A, G. Gardiner 
is offering snecial bargains in pianos 
and musical instruments. His stock 
comprises a large asortment. As he 
owns his building, pays no rent and 
pays cash for his instruments, he is in a 

position to make terms to suit. See card 
elsewhere. 

* * * 

If the knowledge that your neighbor* 
are doing well is a source of pleasure 
to you you will have a happy New 
Year and no "swearing off” to do. 














6 


THE LIBERATOR. 



people of the city. A significant fact 
is that he orders his goods in thousand 
dollar lots. He has sent out several 
young men who are succeeding well. 
Mr. Walker has made some good real 
estate investments. 


MR. H. STRICKLIN. 

Mr. H. Stricklin, the butcher, landed 
in this city with seven dollars when 
Coxie’s army was doing time between 
here and Washington City. He occu¬ 
pies his own building, a store 30x40 
feet, with flats above, at 2053 East 
Washington street. In connection with 
his butcher business he carries a full 
line of groceries. He owns two stores 
on Central avenue, with flats above, 
which pav him a good income. He has 
just completed four 6-room cottages on 
Santa Fe avenue, making seven in one 
row, all of which are occupied. His 
monthly income is $150- He has ar¬ 
rangements made for erecting 17 ™ ore 
cottages. Most of his buildings are 
occupied by white families, all of whom 
patronize his business. 


W. H. WASHINGTON. 

The largest single real estate deal 
made by a colored agent was made by 
Mr. Washington last December, when 
he sold the Sixth street M. E. church 
for $24,000. He has also secured loans 
amounting to thousands of dollars. As 
we have already said, the advent of the 
colored real estate dealer increased the 
chances of the colored people to secure 
desirable homes and made it easier for 
them to rent in decent sections and get 
better contracts. Few men, single- 
handed and alone, have rendered greater 
service to the race than Mr. Washing¬ 
ton has. He furnishes employment for 
several members of the race, and is en¬ 
terprising, always investing his monev 
so as to benefit our people and their en¬ 
terprises. This class of men and women 
cannot be too highly appreciated. It is 
the men and women of this class upon 
which the success of the race depends. 


MR. EUGENE WALKER. 

Mr. Eugene Walker, the tailor, com¬ 
menced business 12 years ago with a 
capital of $A one dollar of which he 
naid his landlord as part payment on a 
room to be used as a tailor shop, for 
which he agreed to pay $12 per month. 
He employs now four expert tailors, 
and his patrons are among the wealthy 


MR. B. R. RANDOLPH. 

Officer Randolph is another of our 
worthy men whose career has moved 
the race along. For eight years he has 
served the cit- as policeman to the 
credit and profit of the property own¬ 
ers. Such a record is the best service 
he could render his race. Some years 
ago he bought property out on Santa re 
avenue that was considered “too poor 
to rais-e a cow on.” On this property he 
has erected ten handsome cottages worth 
more than $10,000. 

* * * 

MR. C. C. FLINT, THE GROCER, 
243 E. Second Street. 

Mr. Flint is the pioneer among the 
colored grocers. Noting his success, 
others embarked into the business so 
we now have five grocery stores run by 
colored men. Mr. Flint does the largest 
business of any of them. He carries 
a $2000 stock of fancy groceries, stock 
and fixtures, all free from debt. As he 
pays spot cash for all goods, this en¬ 
ables him to compete in prices with 
competitors. ^ * 

The large stock of furniture of the 
late I. T. Martin, 531-3-5 S. Spring 
street, is being sold at greatly reduced 
prices as the business is to be closed 
out. The stock comprises everything 
in furniture. Persons in need of fur¬ 
niture will do well to examine the stock 
before purchasing. 


A YEAR OF UNPARALLELED 
PROGRESS. 

The year just closed, from a business 
standpoint was one of the most pros¬ 
perous in the history of colored citizens 
of this city. The number of colored 
persons engaged in business is larger 
than in 1903, and those previously en 
gaged all report an increase in the 
amount of business done. And there 
can be offered no better proof of the 
truth of their statements than the fact 
that the space they occupy has been 
doubled. 

In the acquisition of homes and other 
real estate, 1904 beats all previous years; 
in fact, the real estate transfers for the 
year mentioned are as great as the five 
previous years combined. Besides the 
purchase of hundreds of lots on which 
modern cottages have been erected, the 
citizens have also purchased acreage 
property amounting to many hundreds 
of acres. Discussing this matter, Attor¬ 
ney Blair says he examined more con¬ 
tracts for real estate purchases by col¬ 
ored people last year than he did in his 
nine years’ practice in the East. 

It is estimated that if all the homes in 
this city owned by colored people were 
placed together they would form a mod¬ 
ern citv of 4000 to 5000 souls. This is 
based upon the fact that more than half 
of our 8000 colored citizens own their 
homes. This city would contain all 
modern conveniences such as street cars, 
electric lights, cement sidewalks ana 
telephones. Its buildings would run all 
the way from ten-dollar shacks to $75°° 
mansions, and churches in abundance 
costing from $10,000 to $30,000 each. In 
this city there would be no dives, for 
all property useu by negroes for such 
purposes is owned by white people. Sa¬ 
loons and “red light districts are lux¬ 
uries that would not be tolerated within 
its borders. 

Along all lines of industrty, moral and 
intellectual improvements, our people 
have moved forward. Every one who 
wanted to work has been busy. The 
avenues for their employment through 
their own efforts have increased. 

* * * 


CRIME HAS DIMINISHED. 

Of the 291 murders committed in the 
city and county for 1904, only one crime 
of manslaughter was committed by a 
colored man. In spite of the fact that 
the colored population has greatly in- 














T^LH liBKK.aj.vjiv. 


7 



creased, felony and other infractions of 
the law have shown no upward ten¬ 
dency. The counterfeit negro—the 
white man “blacked”—has put uo some 
jobs for the negro, but the fineness of 
the work left the earmarks of the ex¬ 
pert white criminal, and the suspicion 
went where it belonged. 

As suicides, the negro is making a 
poor showing. One in 8000 is his record 
for this year in the city, while that of 
the white people, placing their popula¬ 
tion at 115,000, is one for each 1128 in 
round numbers. 

The divorce business, which is rap¬ 
id 1 '- becoming an indisnensable luxury 
among the white ladies and gentlemen 
of leisure, is not looked upon with fa¬ 
vor by the negro, for it separates him 
from his wife. 

Improvement all along the line has 
been the watchword. Let it be the 
watchword still. More love for God 
and men, more respect for law, more 
labor and economy, more money for 
race enterprises, and victorv is ours. 

* * * 

MR. R. H. DUNSTON, MEMBER OF 
CHAMBER OF COMMERCE. 

In recounting the achievements of our 
colored business men, Mr. Dunston has 
been perhaps the most successful of 
them all. Entering the transfer busi¬ 
ness several years ago with a one-horse 
spring wagon, he now owns six vans. 
Five of them have a carrying capacity of 
nine tons each, requiring three large 
draft horses to each van. These, with 
one truck and a piano van, comprise his 
present outfit. He employs 12 to 16 men 
at wages from $15 to $20 per week each. 
He is erecting a warehouse at a cost 
of $10,000. It is not to be wondered at 
that the wide-awake business men who 
compose the Chamber of <ft)mmerce and 
who are doin^ so much to develop this 
section, should honor this quiet, un¬ 
assuming gentleman bv electing him a 
member of that body. Although he is 
rendering .to the race an inestimable ser¬ 
vice, 

“social set,” his name never appearing 
in the weekly write-ups of their doings, 
which occupy so much 
weekly papers. It is inspiring to chron¬ 
icle the achievements of such a man as 
R. H. Dunston, proprietor of the Los 
Angeles Van and Storage Company. 


J. W. COLEMAN’S NEW AND SEC¬ 
OND HAND FURNITURE 
STORE, E. wECOND. 

Mr. Coleman, former proprietor of 
Hotel Coleman, conducts the largest, 
new and second hand furniture busi¬ 
ness in the city. “By sruare dealings, 
and politeness” he has built up a busi¬ 
ness which requires four employes. In 


PORT ARTHUR HAS FALLEN. 

After a siege unequaled in the world’s 
history, Port Arthur, the earth’s great¬ 
est citadel, with 48,000 prisoners, has 
fallen into the hands of the Japs. Per¬ 
haps no nation on earth could have cap¬ 
tured that formidable fortress with a 
smaller sacrifice of life than did the 
Japs. When it is taken into considera¬ 
tion that the rank and file of the “Japan¬ 
ese army is unsurpassed, that their en¬ 
gineers, guns and gunners have no su¬ 
periors, and their explosives are the 
most powerful in exist ;nce, the secret 
of their manufacture being known only 
to the Japs themselves, it is a serious 
question whether any other nation in 
existence could have accomplished that 


lar and is an all-around good and use¬ 
ful citizen. He is secretary of the 
Afro-American State Council and takes 
a lively interest in the affairs of the race. 
He owns a splendid home on Boyle 
Heights, near that of his mother, Mrs. 
Harriet Owens, in whose business suc¬ 
cesses he takes great pride. He is the 
worthy son of a noble woman and de¬ 
serves the success he is meeting with. 


and doubtless will bring them into a 
closer bond of union. The Japanese are 
fighting humanity’s battle, and whether 
they win or lose, the cause of the weak 
as against the merciless strong will have 
received such a momentum that noth¬ 
ing short of success can check it. When 
we study the battles thus far fought by 
the Japs and Slavs on land and sea, it 
gives a rude setback to the heathenish 
idea of some self-styled intelligent peo¬ 
ple that superiority depends upon the 
color of one’s skin. The belief that the 
European by virtue of his pale skin, 
was the superior of the brown men of 
the Orient, has been rudely shattered. 
Since the meeting between the Russian 
and Japanese navies, the Russian navy 
has existed 1 only as a memory, and the 
land forces have had almost a similar 
fate. With all advantages on the sid^ 
of the Russians, the Japs beat them at 
the. Yalu River, killing 1363 and cap¬ 
turing 613. Their loss was only 22^ 
killed. At Liao Yang, Gen. KuropntkirTs 
chosen battle ground, 20,000 Russians 
were killed and wounded. The Japs 
lost 18,000. The advantage in numbers 
was slightly with the latter. At the 
Shahke River, with 240.000 men and 
950 guns, Gen. Kuropatkin attempted to 
drive the Japs back. The attempt cost 
im 68,000 killed and wounded, the loss 
‘n the Japs being 16,000. 


task in the same time without a much 
he is a stranger to the so-called greater sacrifice of life. From a na¬ 
tional and military standpoint, the cap¬ 
ture of Port Arthur was worth the sac¬ 
rifice made, and increased Japan’s pres- 
space in our tige an hundred-fold. 

The opening of the war in the Far 
East was one of the events of 1904 that 
have moved the world along. It has 
taught some lessons that must redound 
to the good of the whole human family, 
















8 


THE LIBERATOR. 


SAWTELLE AND INCORPORA¬ 
TION. 

The agitation for the incorporation of 
Sawtelle is becoming more and more 
popular as the merits and demerits of 
the proposition are discussed. The 
ground upon which the anti-incorpora- 
tionists stand is rapidly being sweot 
from under their feet, and that p'allant 
little band is growing less by conver¬ 
sions and desertions. Every argument ad¬ 
vanced against incorporation by the an¬ 
tis is an argument in favor of the 
proposition as soon as it is aired. The 
advantages to be derived by incorpora¬ 
tion are so many and were so ably set 
forth in the Sentinel of December 24th, 
and the reasons urged against it by the 
exponents so completely exploded by the 
same journal, that our space will be 
kept for future emergencies, if such 
arise. 

Apropos: that scrap between the Sen¬ 
tinel and the Veteran-Enterprise, is 
getting to be something fierce. The lady 
editor of the V. E. has donned her war 
• paint and hurls some epithets at the 
Sentinel man that would make a saucy 
school girl blush. In her desperation 
she strikes at every imaginary foe. The 
“colored man” who edits this journal 
has already received several right-hand 
swings. Now, while the “colored man” 
is going to stand for incorporation until 
it i san accomplished fact, he is too old 
to be drawn into the controversy that is 
being so fiercely waged between these 
rival journalists. In this fight there is 
an uncertain quantity. These combat¬ 
ants are both unmarried, onould the 
editor of the Sentinel become Mayor of 
Sawtelle and the two papers pool their 
interests by electing the lady of the 
V. E. to the position of first lady of 
the Sawtelle White House, where would 
the “colored man” be? 

In a recent edition of the V. E. appears 
the following paragraph: 

“It is hinted that the incorporation 
idea is not as popular in our town as 
it might be, and the colored man was 
selected to circulate the incorporation 
petition because he had no business in¬ 
terests to jeopardize by so doing.” 

There are some statements in the par¬ 
agraph quoted that are due possibly to a 
lack of correct information. The “col¬ 
ored man” has never circulated a peti¬ 
tion for incorporation, and no one has 
ever asked or suggested that he circu¬ 


late one. The statement that the col¬ 
ored man” “has no business interests to 
jeopardize” is another error. The fact 
of the matter is, the “colored man” not 
only has business interests to jeopar¬ 
dize, but would not part with his in¬ 
terests in Sawtelle for $sooo. Can the 
editor of the V. E. say as much? The 
lady of the V. E. always refers to the 
editor of this journal as the “colored 
man.” Either she does not know his 
name or she emphasizes the word “col¬ 
ored” hoping thus to prejudice the cause 
of incorporation. In this she is again 
misinformed. The fact that a wealth 
of rich, red blood in the veins of a man 
makes his cuticle a few shades darker 
than that of his less fortunate brother 
is no longer regarded by well-informed 
people as evidence of inferiority. The 
unfortunates who are still held down by 
this belief would do well to study the 
struggle in the Far East. Furthermore, 
in a town inhabited by old Union sol¬ 
diers, those grand old men who re¬ 
sponded to their country’s call in the 
dark days of the sixties, no black man 
will lose prestige because he is referred 
to as “colored.” Between the heroes that 
followed Grant and his lieutenants from 
Fort Donaldson to Appomattox, and the 
black men of the South who, although 
unswerving in their loyalty to the Stars 
and Stripes, never betrayed a trust re¬ 
posed in them by the men who followed 
Lee, there is a tie of friendship that 
grows stronger as years broaden the 
circle of* eternity. The editor of this 
journal referred to as the “colored 
man” is a member of the class last 
named. 


HOPE FOR THE SOUTH. 

During the year just closed public 
sentiment in the South in favor of law 
and order showed a marked increase. 
Leading men and newspapers have been 
loud in their denunciation of mob law 
throughout that section. The disposi¬ 
tion to punish this class of cold-blooded 
murderers is growing throughout the 
South, especially in Alabama and parts 
of Mississippi, where lynchers have been 
dealt with as their crimes deserve. In 
Lincoln county, Miss., in the December 
term of the Circuit Court, Judge Wil¬ 
kinson sentenced a number of white- 
cappers to life imprisonment and others 
to fifty and twenty-five years respective¬ 
ly. This change of front in favor of law 


and order is due to several causes, the 
principal one of which is the fact that 
the white people of that section are 
slowly learning that the onlv way to 
make their lives and property safe is to 
protect those of the negroes. Secondly, 
that where life is not safe, propertv has 
no value. This is shown in their thou¬ 
sands of abandoned farms, which only a 
few years ago by negro labor yielded 
a handsome revenue, and which farms 
were depopulated by the lawless acts of 
worthless white criminals. Thirdly, 
that the toleration of lawlessness when 
practiced upon negroes by lawless whites 
has made law breaking so popular that 
it has been adopted as an industry by a 
large portion of the white citizens and 
left as their only legacy to their chil¬ 
dren. The white men of this country 
cannot remain free while holding the 
negro as a slave; they cannot "o up 
while holding the negro down * they 
cannot long enjoy their rights whie de¬ 
nying the negro his. To make their 
lives and property safe they will have 
to protect those of the negro. Herein 
lies the hope of the intelligent, upright, 
progressive negroes of this republic. 

In suppressing lawlessness in the 
South, very little is done out of regard 
for the negro and his rights, for Judge 
Wilkinson said in his lecture to the 
whitecappers : “I have no more use for 
the ne<rro than you have. * * * The 
bad effect of this whitecap business is 
on the lives of those who join. If you 
should take a negro or a white man out 
and kill him, it would not make much 
difference if it stopped there. The ne¬ 
gro that is hung or shot is in a much 
better condition than the man that does 
the deed. It is over soon as far as the 
mortal part is concerned, but the per¬ 
petrator, with a black conscience and a 
seared heart, to eke out a miserable ex¬ 
istence is left. There is no way on 
earth to remove the scar. This white¬ 
capping busin/ess must stop, even if the 
law has to make every woman in Lin¬ 
coln county a widow.” 

The effect upon the lives and posterity 
of the white criminals and the turning 
of valuable plantations into waste, howl- 
in gwildernesses will ultimately reach 
the white man’s sense of justice, through 
the medium of a depleted pocket book. 
There are everywhere rifts in the clouds 
that have so long overshadowed our 
path. All is well. A great destiny 
awaits us. 









THE LIBERATOR. 


MAY PREVENT NEGRO COLONY. 

San Bernardino, Jan. 2.—The County 
Supervisors will officially inquire into 
the proposed settling of negroes on Mo¬ 
jave River lands. Considerable alarm is 
expressed over the project, Supervisor 
West explaining that should the negroes 
be lured to that section it would only 
be to expose them to inevitable hard¬ 
ships, suffering and ruin, and finally 
throw them on the county to be pro¬ 
vided for. 

While there is vast acreage of highly 
fertile land in that region, open to en¬ 
try, no water is obtainable, except at 
great expense, a well costing $5000, with 
a daily expense of $15 for pumping 
water on the land. 


We knew all along that the promoters 
of the colonization scheme mentioned 
above were making a mistake, one that 
they could easib T have avoided making 
and saved several hundred dollars. But 
a white surveyor wanted a iob of sur¬ 
veying, so he got up the scheme, and 
upon his word some of the negroes 
made a rush to get rid of their money. 
Colored men who want to farm can 
get an abundance of land with water, 
and this in less than an hour’s ride 
from this city, at from $150 to $500 per 
acre. You want to avoid the cheap lands 
of California, so called, as you would a 
“gold brick.” If you would avoid star¬ 
vation, yon had betted keep away from 
the desert lands until the national gov¬ 
ernment sunnlies them with water. When 
lands in the vicinity of this city sold 
for $100 to $200 per acre, with terms to 
suit the purchaser, the colored people 
could not be induced to buv. Now that 
the price has advanced from $150 to 
$coo, they are wasting their money on 
land that you could not give a white 
man, and this simply because a white 
man wanted the job of surveying it. 


RURAL NOTES. 

Mr. J. L. Edmunds, editor of the Lib¬ 
erator, the organ of the intelligent col¬ 
ored citizens of this section, has a beau¬ 
tiful home in Sawtelle. We lunched 
with this journalist a short time ago, 
when Mrs. Edmunds and daughter acted 
as hostesses in a charming and hospit¬ 
able manner .—The Globe. 


BLOOD AND SKIN DISEASES 



CURED IN 4 TO 40 DAYS. 

DR. M. E. SYKES. 

I have secured the services and treat¬ 
ment of an old specialist of 60 years' ex¬ 
perience In the treatment of all Blood 
and Skin Diseases. Our Remedies are en¬ 
tirely new and contain no mercury or 
ioddides of potash, and WE positively 
cure Scrofula, Cancer, Indolent Ulcers, 
Eczema, Pimples, Catarrh, Rheumatism, 
impotency, Strictures, Piles and all Pri¬ 
vate Diseases. A trial treatment free in 
case. Call at my office and be cured— 
423^ S. Spring St., Rooms 1 and 2, 
Grand Pacific Hotel, from 9 a. m. to 12 
m., 1 to 4:30 p. m., 6 to 9:30 p. m. 

ACME LINIMENT 

Cure-all for Rheumatism, can be had 
at my office, 50 c to $1.00 per bottle. 

MELVIN E. SYKES, M. D 


CHARLES GRiMES 

Oyster and Chop House 

Next door to the Electric 
Railway office, Pasadena 


LIMITED 
IN TIME 

but unlimited in luxury and 
comfort is the palatial 

California 

Limited 

running daily from California 
to 

Chicago 

a perfect train for particular 
patrons of the 

Santa Fe 

Ask agents or send to General 
Pass. Agent Santa Fe, Los 
Angeles, for a California Lim¬ 
ited pamphlet. 


C. W. Holden L. Holden 

Holden & Company 
P Poultry Ranch 

Wholesale and Retail Dealers 
in Live and Dressed Poultry, Fresh 
Eggs and Squabs. 

To insure prompt delivery, order one 
day in advance. 

Inspection cordially invited. 
Special rates to Caterers. 

Ranch,—2530 Edwin Street 

1 block East of Santa Fe Ave. 

Tel. Sunset Hope 9322 


BURN’S S3.00 AND $3.50 


We appreciate the patronage of the colored people and 
show in a substantial manner by advertising 
in this paper. 


240 South Spring Street. 



BURNS, 














10 


THE LIBERATOR. 


’Phone James 9171 


| C. H. Lewis 

♦ Presc-’ption Druggist T 

Cor. 3rd & Main Sts. ♦ 

Also Seventh, and Central 
Phone James 69S1 

Los Angeles J 

W. O. W, No. 63. T. F. B. No. 6 ♦ 
Ben Hur, No. 4 | 


Jones Book Store 

New and 2nd-hand Books 
226-228 

WEST FIRST STREET 

Los Angeles, Cal. 



SympathicTone 
Elastic Touch 
Great 
Durability. 

Williamson 

Bros. 

327 S. Spring 


LOS ANGELES VAN, 

TRUCK & STORAGE CO. 


Residence Phone Red 1435. 

Office 512 South Broadway. 

Tel. South 87. 

FURNITURE and PIANO MOVING 

Chas.IL Ward 

PRESCRIPTION DRUGGIST 
Telephone Red 611 

41 N. Fair Oaks Ave., Pasadena 


J. A. SHEPARD 


L. F. SHEPARD 


TEL. RROWN 1853 


Shepard & So:i 

Confectioners 

WHOLESALE AND RETAIL 

Lunch and Ice Cream Parlor 
in connection. Bakery. 

177 N. Spring St., Los Angeles, 


Dean’s Drug Store 

SECOND AND SPRING STS. 
LOS ANGELES, CAL 

Tel. Main 560 haruy g. dean 

TO LET—Neath furnished rooms. Call 
or write 1028 East 36th street. 


For Christmas and 
Holiday Candies 


Gall on 


Shepard & Son 

CONFECTIONERS 

Home made Candies a Specialty 
Tel. Brown 1853 177 N. Spring St. 


zo zo 


Rapidlv cleanes windows, mirrors, show¬ 
cases, brass, nickel, copper, tin, zinc, mar¬ 
ble, oil cloth, wood work, and all painted 
and unpainted surfaces. 

For sale by grocers. Prices 10 cents. 

HILL & LAWRENCE, Manafacturers. 

Los Angeles, Cal, 


Los Angeles Van, Truck and 


Storage Co, 512 South Broadway 

Safe and Machinery Moving. 

Pianos and Furniture Packed, Shipped 
and Stored. 

Office Tel.—Main 115 ; Home 29 4 
Res. Tel. Red 14 3 5 
R. DUNSTON, Proprietor 


DRESSMAKING. 

Mrs. L. L. Stewart has opened a par¬ 
lor millinery at her home, 1028 East 
36th street. Dresses made in any style. 
All work guaranteed. 


Headquarter for 

Pure Teas, 
Roasted Coffee. 


Also 


Fine China, 


Glassware, 

Pasadena Tea Go, 

H. C. ROEDIGER, Prop. 

36 N. Fair Oaks Ave. 

Telephone Black 1161 


Office Hours: 10 to 12 a. m. 

1 XC 5, 6 to 9 p. m. 

Tels. Main 2463; Home 4678. 

Dr. Geo. D. Taylor 

10 8% W. 3rd St., Los Angeles, Cal. 


For New and 2nd-hand 
furniture, Stove, Crock- 
ware and Clothing, 

call upon Mrs. L. J. Williams, 
624 Buena Vista Street, 
Satisfaction guaranteed. 


A. G. Gardner 
Piano House 

118 Winston St. 

We Rent, Repair and Tune, Sell, 
Buy and Exchange 

PIANOS 

Handle the best makes and are 
headquarters for Low Prices. 
Phones Black 2221; Home 3195 


| W. H. Washington ! 

Real Estate ! 

and Employment Agency \ 
Collecting of all kinds. 

List your Real Estate with me. 

If you wish to rent, buy or sell 4 
consult me, I can interest you. , 
Parties desiring help would do < 
well to call at J 

212-214 Wilson Block < 

S.-E. Cor. 1st and Spring < 
Tels.— Sunse Main 1310 Home 1628 




it 


I General Storage and 
Commission 
Warehouse 




a 
n 

UF.MOAT 

i* 
if 

ifr Take Downey Avenue Cars 
it T 


San Fernando and Alamda *£ 


A single burner giver more light thar 
four common gas jets and does not burn 
one-half the gas. It is superior to mantle 
burner. You are always buying mantles 
The NO MANTLE GAS BURNER needs nt 
repairs, can’t be broken and never wears 
out. 

PRICE $1,00 

Sunset Main 2750. Home 3944. 

312 West Sixth St. Los Angeles. Cal. 


EDWARD H. REST 

Grower of 


PALMS, ROSES, FERNS, ETC 
Orange, Lemon and Deciduous Trees 
Nurseries, Bank St, South Pasadena. 

Phone Sunset Main 2580 
424 S. BROADWAY, Los Angeles, Cal. 







































ooooooooooooo 


THE LIBERATOR. 


Appreciating the value of the “Liberator” 
as a factor in the advancement of the 
colored race* we gladly insert this card to 
help the cause by our patronage. We 
stand with President Roosevelt on the 
platform of ‘‘A Square Deal to all.” 


HARRIS & FRANK, 


117-123 N. SPRING ST. 

Proprietors London Clothing House 


Highest Prices Paid for all kinds of New & 
2nd-hand Goods. Furniture a specialty. 

Smith & Co. 

New and Second-hand Dealers 
Third St. 




Los Angeles, Cal. 


508 E 

Tel. Figueroa 5842. 

Messrs. Williamson Bros., music 
dealers, wish the readers of the Liber¬ 
ator to call and examine their large 
stock of pianos and musical instru¬ 
ments, especially if desirous of pur¬ 
chasing. Terms to suit the purchaser. 
Large stock of latest makes of sewing 
machines. 327 So. Spring street. 


SHOES 

that Fit and Wear 

For Men, Women 
and Children 

Phonee Red 1401; Home 1778 

BL1NEY SHOE CO. 

456 S. Broadway 

One door from 5th Street 




ooooooooocoo oooooooooooooo 

We Sell the Best Extension Tables 

made of Solid Oak, smooth 
& easy working $6.50 to $40. 

Carpets, Rugs and Mattings, 

Lace Curtains, Couch Covers, 
Window Shades 3x7. 35 cts. 

Our Goods are First-class and Prices Low. 

All Coods guaranteed as represented. 

Special v inducements to cash buyers.__ 

r J fCs 33* * 3 30 3PWNQ 

OOOOOOOOOCOO ooooooooocoo 





♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦▼ 

t Phone John 4371 

| II. & II. Rubbish Co. 

£ E. G. Hill, Manager 

* Work done Promptly and Reasonable 

X 236 San Pedro St. * 

♦ Res., 504 Carolina St., Los Angelas ▼ 

Phone Black 2616 

1st St. 2-nil. Hand Store 

First-class new and second-hand 

Stoves Hi Furniture 

234 East Second St. 

G. Cummings, Prop. Los Angeles 

THE LONE STAR ROOMING HOUSE 

Mrs. Martinez has opened a first- 
class rooming house and dining room 
in connection at 126 San Pedro sareet. 
Everything is new and first class. 
Home cooked meals a specialty. Mrs. 
Martinez caters to first class people 
only, thus affording such person a 
safe home with refined, cultured sur¬ 
roundings. Call and see for your¬ 
selves. Terms reasonable. 12,6 San 
Pedro street. 

The Ohio—Furnished rooms, airy and 
sunny; rented with or without 
board. Reasonable rates; location 
central, 126 Vine street. Mrs. C. L. 
Campbell, prop. 

















THE LIBERATOR. 


Vi 





A V 

/'jfll 32 ®#' 

< +>. 


UliTAU IIC r.nftU/ The phenomenal growth of I he Broadway Department 5to^® 
WATCH Do UUUW"ha* been quoted by local publications tune, fame and again. Hm 

store has been used frequently to emploit the [ sptenM op£ b^mttog. 
business people of all classes. e . w ° n A. if secured the second and third floors of the building 

This busy store is still expanding aving nx Broad wbicb baS been known in the past as the 

located at the southwest corner of our . 170*122 feet 1 he building* will be re- 

Hotel Savoy. There are two _ "iL”^..!. given Lre space i„ 

modeled throughout. New departments wi institutions in Los Angeles that 

which to expand. The Broadway Department Store «■o f the 1 rea80fls for the phenomenal 

is growing more rapidly than the city, an t. Bro ’adway" catering to the masses and not to the 

££ S — Tour Jerchani4 methods. Watch the daily 

papers for 

A Gigantic Alteration Sale* 


Alfred Benjamin’s 

Fine Clothing 
for HEN—- 

You pay no more than the ordinary kind cost yon in other stores. 

Wear the Best. 

We are sole Distributors tor this tine make. 

„ - 137-139 8. Spring 

James Smitll & GO.) Bryson Block 

EXCLUSIVE CLOTHIERS. 
















